---
title: "<code>coma</code>: Configurable command management for humans."
header:
  image: /assets/images/coma-logo-banner.png
  og_image: /assets/images/coma-logo.png
  teaser: /assets/images/coma-logo-no-bg.png
toc: true
---

<i class="fab fa-fw fa-github"></i> [Repo](https://github.com/francois-rd/coma/) &nbsp;
<i class="fa-solid fa-book"></i> [Documentation](https://coma.readthedocs.io/)

## Introduction

`coma` makes it easy to build configurable command-based programs in Python.

Commands (also known as sub-commands) are the `commit` and `pull` part of
`git commit` and `git pull` (whereas `git` is the program). Commands can
be seen as command-line meta-arguments: They drastically affect not only the
behavior of the program, but also what additional command-line line arguments
and flags are accepted.

`coma` goes one step further. Each command implicitly determines which configuration
files are loaded, enabling command-specific configs that don't affect the whole
program.

## Why `coma`?

`coma` has three key features that enable rapid prototyping while maintaining rich flexibility:
  * **Rich configuration awareness.** Configurations leverage [omegaconf](https://github.com/omry/omegaconf/)'s extremely rich and powerful configuration management features.
  * **Abstracted boilerplate.** Command selection abstracts away the `argparse` boilerplate, while retaining full interoperability for complex use cases.
  * **Plug-and-play extensibility.** [Hooks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hooking) enable plug-and-play flexibility to tweak, replace, or extend `coma`'s default behavior.

Why choose `coma` over another solution, like
[hydra](https://hydra.cc>)? `hydra`, specifically, has the following
limitations (*all of which are features that `coma` supports!*):
 * **Commands.** `hydra` lacks commands. Related functionality must be implemented as separate programs. `coma` naturally encourages component reuse.
 * **Command-line arguments and flags.** `hydra` requires that all program data be provided through configs, whereas `coma` natively supports command-line integration in addition to configs.
 * **Parallel and independent configs.** All `hydra` configs must be hierarchical, whereas `coma` encourages greater flexibility with its config structure.

## Installation

```bash
pip install coma
```

## Testimonial

I developed `coma` to rapidly prototype and iterate my deep learning research projects. I have been using it for every project since.
I use `coma` to split my workflow into discrete steps, such as `preprocess`,
`train`, and `eval`. Each step maps cleanly onto a `coma` command, which
only loads configs necessary to that step. This separation of concerns enables
me to focus of producing impactful research, instead of getting bogged down in the
minutiae of implementation details.

For example, my project codebase might have the following structure:

```
src/
|-- my_proj/
|   |-- preprocess.py
|   |-- train.py
|   `-- eval.py
`-- main.py
```

Inside each file in `my_proj`, I'll define a *command* and a *config* for that step in my workflow. For example, `train.py` might have:

```python
from dataclasses import dataclass

@dataclass
class TrainConfig:
    # Define a feature rich config that is fully omegaconf-compatible.
    lr: float = 1e-05  # For example, a default learning rate for training.

def train(cfg: TrainConfig):
    ... # Use `cfg' in your training code (e.g., setting the learning rate).
```

In `main.py`, only **a single line of code** is required to enable each command to access all the rich functionality of `coma`:

```python
from my_proj import preprocess, PreprocessConfig, train, TrainConfig, eval, EvalConfig
import coma

if __name__ == "__main__":
    coma.register("preprocess", preprocess, PreprocessConfig)
    coma.register("train", train, TrainConfig)
    coma.register("eval", eval, EvalConfig)
    coma.wake()
```

For example, we can change the learning rate to `1e-06` with a simple command-line override:

```
python main.py train lr=1e-06
```

No need for `argparse` boilerplate! `coma` handles everything in the background.

## Getting Started

Excited to learn more? Jump straight into the short [introductory tutorial](https://coma.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tutorials/intro.html).

